added cache control documentation (#175)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/advanced/performance/cache-control-and-cdn.md

---
id: cache-control-and-cdn
title: Cache Control and CDN
---

<blockquote class="feature--new">
  _This feature has been added in version `2.6.0`_
</blockquote>

# NOTES

Caching is disabled by default for user related content and for cart related content. This is done to avoid inadvertently caching sensitive user information.

> To avoid any performance regression it is highly recommended to use the `<WishlistProvider>` to handle wishlist related tasks (such as checking if a product is in the wishlist). This is the default behaviour of Front-Commerce since 2.6.0. So if you started with Front-Commerce at or after 2.6.0 you have nothing to worry about. However if you upgraded from versions lower than 2.6.0 please refer to the [WishlistProvider documentation](/docs/appendices/migration-guides#Wishlist-Provider)

Author: yes and no :D cause enabling the caching might cause a performance issue with the wishlist, that is why it is recommended to use the wishlist provider when enabling caching.

I refactored this to the migration guide. makes more sense now

# Introduction

To enable CDN caching you need to first set up proper [cache headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control) for your site.

In Front-Commerce we have implemented a mechanism where you can easily set up the `cache-control` headers for different parts of your site. You can also provide a custom implementation of the `cache-control` if needed (e.g. products with old last modified have longer caching duration).

# Dynamic Pages

The default theme already contains specific fragments that you can override to customize Cache-Control settings for the most common pages. Please look for the `*CacheControlFragment.gql` files across the theme. Override the desired `*CacheControlFragment.gql` file. Then uncomment the `cacheControl` part of the query. Finally set the `sMaxAge` and `staleWhileRevalidate` values to meet your requirements. For example the `CategoryCacheControlFragment.gql` could look something like this:

```gql
fragment CategoryCacheControlFragment on Category {
  cacheControl(input: { sMaxAge: 600, staleWhileRevalidate: 3600 }) {
    sMaxAge
    staleWhileRevalidate
  }
}
```

> P.S. we use `sMaxAge` instead of `maxAge` because this is the header used by CDN cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
P.S. we use `sMaxAge` instead of `maxAge` because this is the value used by shared caches (e.g. reverse proxies or CDN)
```

# Static Pages

To set up cache control headers for static pages you need to set a static attribute on the matching route component. Please make sure that this attribute is hoisted all the way to be visible on the exported route component. Your static page component should look something like this:

```js
import Home from "theme/pages/Home";

> export default Home;

Reviewer: nit: move the export after the cacheControlDefinition

---
id: cache-control-and-cdn
title: Cache Control and CDN
---

<blockquote class="feature--new">
  _This feature has been added in version `2.6.0`_
</blockquote>

To enable CDN caching you need to first set up proper [cache headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control) for your site.

In Front-Commerce we have implemented a mechanism where you can easily set up the `cache-control` headers for different parts of your site. You can also provide a custom implementation of the `cache-control` if needed (e.g. products with old last modified have longer caching duration).

> # Category/Product/CMS Pages

Reviewer 2: We must document it in an agnostic way I think.\
While the default theme only contains these fragments, the documentation must directly explain how it works.

These fragments will be in the skeleton when the project will start, so developers will have faced it.\
We could however mention something more generic like:
> The default theme already contains specific fragments that you can override to customize Cache-Control settings for the most common pages. Please look for the `*CacheControlFragment.gql` files across the theme.

A section in the migration guide would be good though to highlight these new cache control fragments that they could override (Category / Product / CMS Page).

Author: I have a part related to cache implementation for a custom module

To set up cache control headers for category/product/cms pages, first override `src/web/theme/pages/Category/CategoryCacheControlFragment.gql`, `src/web/theme/pages/Product/ProductCacheControlFragment.gql`, `src/web/theme/pages/CmsPage/CmsPageCacheControlFragment.gql`. Then uncomment the `cacheControl` part of the query. Finally set the `sMaxAge` and `staleWhileRevalidate` values to meet your requirements. So your query should look like this:

```gql
fragment CategoryCacheControlFragment on Category {
  cacheControl(input: { sMaxAge: 600, staleWhileRevalidate: 3600 }) {
    sMaxAge
    staleWhileRevalidate
  }
}
```

P.S. we use `sMaxAge` instead of `maxAge` because this is the header used by CDN cache.

# Static Pages

> To set up cache control headers for static pages you need to set a static attribute on the exported component of that page. Please make sure that this attribute is hoisted all the way to be visible on the exported route component (see `src/web/theme/routes/index.js`). Your static page component should look something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up cache control headers for static pages you need to set a static attribute on the matching route component. Please make sure that this attribute is hoisted all the way to be visible on the exported route component. Your static page component should look something like this:
```

```js
import Home from "theme/pages/Home";

export default Home;

Home.cacheControlDefinition = {
  sMaxAge: 10,
  staleWhileRevalidate: 1000,
};
```

> # Graph QL queries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# GraphQL queries
```

> To enable caching for Graph QL queries you should make your Graph QL queries use the `GET` method. This can be done by adding the following environment variable to your `.env` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable caching for GraphQL queries you should make your GraphQL queries use the `GET` method. This can be done by adding the following environment variable to your `.env` file:
```

```
FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_USE_GET_FOR_PERSISTED_QUERIES=true
```

> Once you have enabled `GET` for your Graph QL queries the dispatcher will automatically set the values for the `cache-control` header based on the route (category/product/cms page).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have enabled `GET` for your GraphQL queries the dispatcher will automatically set the values for the `cache-control` header based on the `cacheControl` fields contained in your GraphQL query.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I think that it'd be a good thing to add a blockquote warning here to highlight the fact that turning `FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_USE_GET_FOR_PERSISTED_QUERIES=true` will also disable GraphQL batching.

# Setting up the CDN

> Finally after you have set up the appropriate cache controls for your site you now need to configure the CDN. Front-Commerce requires one setting on the CDN to work properly and that is to exclude the cache for requests with a cookie `connect.sid`. How this can be achieved depends on your CDN. It is however common to have it as an exclusion regular expression, in that case you have to set it to `^connect.sid` (`^` denoting starts with). If you are using Front-Commerce cloud solution this comes pre configured for you so you do not have to do anything.

Reviewer 2: We don't want to go too deep into how to configure CDNs to prevent maintaining documentation for each of them. We could improve this part later with links to the documentatino of the most used ones.

```suggestion
Finally after you have set up the appropriate cache controls for your site you now need to configure a CDN (or a reverse proxy such as Nginx) which will take care of caching pages for users. See [Which CDN providers support stale-while-revalidate?](https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/cdn-rfc5861-support.html) for a list of CDN that supports it. As of 2.6, Front-Commerce requires that the CDN ignores the cache for requests containing a cookie named  `connect.sid`. Please refer to your CDN's documentation for more details. **If you are using Front-Commerce Cloud, you have nothing to do** unless you changed default values. Please [contact us](support@front-commerce.com) if you need support to enable caching.
```

# Advanced usage

## Customise cache headers per category/product/CMS page

You can have a more fine grained control on your cache headers' configurations than the one presented [in the Category/Product/CMS Pages above](#Category%2fProduct%2fCMS-Pages). This can be done in the resolver/loader of the module itself.

For example let us have a look at the resolver of the Magento 2 Categories found at `src/server/modules/magento2/catalog/categories/resolvers.js`. You can see a section there dedicated to cache control. It is there that you can add any logic you want to tweek the cache control headers to your liking depending on the category at hand. Note we recommend you write the logic in the loader and call it from the resolver as with any other function.

## Implementing cache control for your custom module

> Say you have a custom module and you want to add caching capabilities to your module. In Front-Commerce this is possible by implementing the `Cacheable` Graph QL interface and adding the `cacheControl` field to your module's resolver. You can see that is exactly what we did for the Products module in Magento 2 `src/server/modules/magento2/catalog/products/schema.gql` and `src/server/modules/magento2/catalog/products/resolvers.js` respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Say you have a custom module and you want to add caching capabilities to your module. In Front-Commerce this is possible by implementing the `Cacheable` GraphQL interface and adding the `cacheControl` field to your module's resolver.
```

This section would need more detailed example, using diffs. This is a pattern we got positive feedbacks for.

Developers will more likely go over code samples with diffs, that's why we usually document such enhancements with diffs. See https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/advanced/graphql/slim-down-resolvers-with-loaders.html#Refactoring-to-loaders for instance.

You also need to make sure that from the client side the `cacheControl` field is requested by your Graph QL query related to your custom module, and is set up with proper values (e.g. `src/web/theme/pages/Product/ProductCacheControlFragment.gql`).

# Notes

> Please note that caching is disabled by default for user related content and for cart related content. This is done to avoid inadvertently caching sensitive user information.

Reviewer 2: This sentence should be a warning at the beginning of the page. It is very likely a temporary state that will improve in upcoming releases.

> To avoid any performance regression it is highly recommended to use the `<WishlistProvider>` to handle wishlist related tasks (such as checking if a product is in the wishlist). This is the default behaviour of Front-Commerce since 2.6.0. So if you started with Front-Commerce at or after 2.6.0 you have nothing to worry about. However if you upgraded from versions lower than 2.6.0 please refer to the [WishlistProvider documentation](/docs/appendices/migration-guides#Wishlist-Provider)

Reviewer 2: This part should go into the migration guide part related to Cache-Control.

Author: In later comment you mentioned moving it to the beginning of this doc. I moved it to the beginning and added a part in the migration guide that is basically a quick summary and a reference here
